hi welcome to polyphagia
online I'm iris machine and I will be
your instructor for this tutorial hello
in this video I wanted to show you how
to reduce three types of canes there is
the round cane which is a rose cane the
rectangle or a square cane and there's a
triangle cane in this case it's a
butterfly wing I will start with the
round cane and I wanted to talk about
some things that you need to know before
reducing canes you have to make sure
that all of the clays that you used
building your cane are the same
consistency and temperature firm clays
or soft clays move differently and will
not reduce evilly when you combine them
in the same cane I usually let my canes
rest overnight and the resting thing
makes the cane beat in the same
temperature from top to bottom and
inside and outside when I'm building my
cane I I give special 10 attention to
any air pockets and I filled them with
my background color I make sure that
there are no holes showing which cause
usually lots of distortion when they are
reduced when I start reducing my canes
I usually squeeze stretch and pull these
are the three things that I do when I
move my cane and reduce it when you
reduced round canes you start with
pressing
hard in the middle of the cane which is
the waste I call it a waste because it's
like a woman's body it's the middle of
the cane and I start stretching it and
stretching it and somebody said choke
the cane it's similar to choking the
game and this cane is cold because it
was resting overnight so I'm starting to
make it warm and I'm squeezing and
turning squeezing and turning and this
takes time you know when you reduce your
case you should do it carefully and
gradually don't try to reduce your cane
fast because it usually distort the
design it's it's much better to do it
slowly and you see slowly the cane
becomes longer but it takes time I just
move it from hand to hand and squeeze it
and turn it squeeze and turn right now
I'm squeezing in the middle I'm still
squeezing in the middle but I'm you know
moving to the edges as well
now some people stick the ends of lick
there came to their work surface or they
put put a glass tile or even scrub clay
on top of em on the bottom and this can
minimize the distortion well I I don't
find it very comfortable to put glass
tiles over it or put scrap clay I just
prefer to do it by hand and although I
know there are more scrubs this way but
it's my choice and I prefer to do it
this way anyway we're starting to see
that the cane is becoming longer and now
I'm starting to move
to the edges as well and I press evenly
and I keep my emotions equal to all
sides and I flip the cane from hand to
hand and I try and make it as even
thickness as I can now there's a time
when you can put it on your surface and
roll it but not yet
I never roll my cane on on the surface
right from the beginning because there
are so many elements inside here that
they are filled with air and if I put it
in my on my surface it usually just
break apart and everything I worked on
is is going to waste so doing this with
your hands is making every hole or air
pocket closed and the clay is attaching
to to each other and all the parts are
being one when the cane reaches about
this size it's about 15 centimeters or
almost 6 inch I can start rolling it and
rolling it I just roll it with my hands
I don't have to roll it right to the
edge because I usually cut my canes in
half and then I just put it on my box of
canes and they wait until I want to get
it to make it smaller so this is that
the final rolling which smooth is my
hands and I take a blade I just cut it
in half and this is what we're waiting
for
it's the final cane
this is the final result so this is the
way I reduced round canes now to the
next game it's this stare rectangle it's
a name cane I made a signature cane with
my name on it
it's IRA specially and I'm going to show
you how to reduce this one
I didn't attach them together because
it's too long to reduce this kind of
cane but I'm just reducing it